>> Jon Kuperman: Cool.
Another really,
really great concept is
this idea of Skip Links.
For those that don't use
keyboard navigation,
this will probably start surprising
you as you start using it.
But if you go to
The New York Times website,
you will see only two link at the top,
sections and search.
But if you start tabbing through,
once you get past search,
this thing will appear and
it says skip to navigation.
And so you'll often see these on websites
where basically what's going on is they're
trying to help out and say, you're
starting to tab through our site, but
we have a lot of stuff before
the meat of the website.
Do you wanna just skip?
And sometimes it's skip to navigation,
sometimes it's skip to main content,
things like that,
sometimes you'll see a skip to comments.
And so
these are called Skip Links and, yeah,
the basic idea is again,
recognizing a keyboard only user and
trying to help them out a little bit
by allowing them to just move past.
Cuz otherwise, if you tabbed through
you'd be on US International,
the different languages, the date, you're
tabbing through all those things, so it's
giving you an offer here of, do you just
wanna skip down to the main navigation?
And so,
these can be achieved really simply.
So the basic idea, is that you have,
let's say,
three different sections to your web site.
You have your navigation,
you have your main content.
And then up at the very top,
let's say you put this link, and
you give it a class of skip-link,
and you give it its reference.
It points to the main content, let's say.
So you have, it's just an anchor,
so skip to main content.
And it will move you down
to that main content div.
And so then all you do is you take it,
and you position absolute it, and
you push it up off the screen, like up
to the top you see top negative 40.
I gave it red and white so
it could be really starkly visible.
But you could give it
whatever colors you want.
And then on its focus state, and here
were kinda getting into these focus ball
elements, you set the top
back down to zero.
So just basically you take this link,
let's say it's the very
first thing in your website.
And it's an anchor, so
it'll be tabbable by default.
So this will be the first thing you tab.
You use CSS to hide it by
default in any number of ways.
And then on its focus state, you on
high def, that's simply how you do it,
there's no JavaScript
necessary nothing like that.
And so this will be ignored by users that
are using a mouse, they'll never be able
to cover on anything like that, but the
second somebody hits tab in the keyboard,
this thing will pop up and like, hey,
do you wanna just skip to my main content?
And so there's a whole Webaim article on
skip links webaim.org/techniques/skipnav.
Cool.
So we're hitting more of
these checklist items now.
So this is a recommendation and
the success criteria is that a link
should be provided to skip navigation and
other page elements that
are repeated across web pages.
So again if you have your header.php,
your whatever it is,
the whole template with your nav and
all that stuff.
You don't want users to have to tab
through it every single page they're on.
So give them some way out,
some way where they can tab through.
And then yeah, there's some specific ones
on like, if I page is proper heading,
it may be considered as sufficient
to just skip to main content.
Sometimes navigations
what you want to skip to.
Again, think about the use case and
what would make more sense for your site.
Cool.
We also got another one which is
another thing we can check off and
on, which is when a web element or
a page element receives focus, it doesn't
have a substantial change to the page.
Again, so the two things that need to
happen on focus are some kind of visual
indicator, right?
And then also, and this is an anti
pattern to avoid here, is you don't wanna
listen for On Focus events and do a bunch
of wild JavaScript and things like that.
That's not cool.
Because you might think Focus only happens
when they kinda click on the thing,
but Focus really happens for
people that are just trying to
tab through your site as well.
So if you have like a modal
that needs to appear,
do an onclick or onkeyup or
something like that.
Don't do it onfocus.
And with those, we can take two check
marks off the WebAIM recommendation.
Does that one make sense,
the focus concept?
Okay, cool.
Yeah, feel free to stop me
if something is not clear.